[llms-finetuning] Add new template for finetuning with OSS libraries (just LLaMA-Factory for now) on Anyscale (#398)
anyscale/templates: templates/fine-tune-llm-oss/README.md

Reviewer: Somewhere mention that there are example configs here but for full set of examples you can visit xyz ?

# Fine-tuning LLMs with LLaMA-Factory on Anyscale

**⏱️ Time to complete**: ~20 mins, which includes the time to train the model

> Looking to get the most out of your LLM workloads? Fine-tuning pretrained LLMs can often be the most cost effective way to improve your model's performance on the tasks that you care about. This template walks through how to use the popular open source library [LLaMA-Factory](https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory) to fine-tune LLMs on Anyscale. LLaMA-Factory comes with a [Ray](https://www.ray.io/) integration for scaling training to multiple GPUs and nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Looking to get the most out of your LLM workloads? Fine-tuning pretrained LLMs can often be the most cost effective way to improve model performance on the tasks that you care about. This template walks through how to use the popular open source library [LLaMA-Factory](https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory) to fine-tune LLMs on Anyscale. LLaMA-Factory comes with a [Ray](https://www.ray.io/) integration for scaling training to multiple GPUs and nodes.
```

## Getting started with LLaMA-Factory 
First, you need to install the LLaMA-Factory code. You can view the latest changes from the [LLaMA-Factory GitHub](https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory.git). 

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory.git
cd LLaMA-Factory
# Install extras separately so Anyscale can track the dependencies on worker nodes.
pip install torch jieba nltk rouge-chinese 
pip install -e .
```

Next, you need to set your `HF_TOKEN` and `WANDB_API_KEY` environment variables. It's recommended to set them in the environment variables section of the [**Dependencies** tab](https://docs.anyscale.com/configuration/dependency-management/dependency-development/#environment-variables) in Workspaces. Simply running `export HF_TOKEN=<HF_TOKEN_HERE>`, or `huggingface-cli login` works for single node compute configurations, but doesn't propagate the environment variables to worker nodes.

> Additionally it is recommended to use `hf_transfer` for fast model downloading. You can do this by running `pip install hf_transfer`, and setting `HF_HUB_ENABLE_HF_TRANSFER=1` in the dependencies tab. Setting `HF_HUB_ENABLE_HF_TRANSFER=1` without first installing `hf_transfer` will cause errors. An example of setting relevant environment variables in the dependencies tab is shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally it's recommended to use `hf_transfer` for fast model downloading by running `pip install hf_transfer`, and setting `HF_HUB_ENABLE_HF_TRANSFER=1` in the **Dependencies** tab. Setting `HF_HUB_ENABLE_HF_TRANSFER=1` without first installing `hf_transfer` will cause errors. An example of setting relevant environment variables in the **Dependencies** tab is shown below.
```

LLaMA-Factory provides a CLI `llamafactory-cli` that allows you to launch training with a config YAML file. For example, you can launch a supervised fine-tuning job with Ray by running the following command:
```bash
cd .. # Return to top level directory.
USE_RAY=1 llamafactory-cli train llamafactory_configs/llama3_lora_sft_ray.yaml
```
This command runs an instruction tuning training job with `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct` on an example subset of the alpaca dataset. By default, Ray logs training statistics with all installed logging libraries, like W&B, MLflow, comet, tensorboard, because LLaMA-Factory relies on Hugging Face's [Trainer integration](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/en/main_classes/trainer#transformers.TrainingArguments.report_to) for logging. To specify a single specific library to log with, set `report_to: <LIBRARY_NAME>` in the config YAML.

## Preparing your dataset

> The above config (`llamafactory_configs/llama3_lora_sft_ray.yaml`) runs out of the box, because it assumes that the dataset and dataset information is located on the Hugging Face hub, and specifies it as below

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above config (`llamafactory_configs/llama3_lora_sft_ray.yaml`) runs out of the box, because it assumes that the dataset and dataset information is located on the Hugging Face hub, and specifies it as below:
```

...
```

However, by default LLaMA-Factory reads dataset information from a local file `dataset_info.json` (which can be found in `LLaMA-Factory/data/`)

To specify new datasets and have them be accessible across Ray worker nodes, you must first add `dataset_info.json` and any data files to shared storage like `/mnt/cluster_storage`. 

For example, if you wanted to run pretraining on the `c4_demo` dataset, you would first go through the following setup steps:
```bash
# create a copy of the data in /mnt/cluster_storage
cp LLaMA-Factory/data/c4_demo.json /mnt/cluster_storage/
```

```bash
# create `/mnt/cluster_storage.dataset_info.json` containing
# {
#     "c4_demo": {
#         "file_name": "/mnt/cluster_storage/c4_demo.json",
#         "columns": {
#         "prompt": "text"
#         }
#     },
# }
echo '{"c4_demo":{"file_name":"/mnt/cluster_storage/c4_demo.json","columns":{"prompt":"text"}}}' > /mnt/cluster_storage/dataset_info.json
```

In `llamafactory_configs/llama3_lora_pretrain_ray.yaml` the relevant `dataset_dir` argument is already specified.
```yaml
...
### dataset
dataset: c4_demo
dataset_dir: /mnt/cluster_storage  # or use local absolute path
...
```

> To launch finetuning with this local dataset, you can run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To launch fine-tuning with this local dataset, you can run
```

```bash
USE_RAY=1 llamafactory-cli train llamafactory_configs/llama3_lora_pretrain_ray.yaml
```

## Running LLaMA-Factory in an Anyscale job

> In order to run LLaMA-Factory as an Anyscale job, you have to create a [custom container image](https://docs.anyscale.com/configuration/dependency-management/dependency-container-images/#customizing-a-container-image()) that comes with LLaMA-Factory installed. You can specify the relevant packages in your dockerfile. For example, you could create an image using the `anyscale/ray-ml:2.42.0-py310-gpu` base image as follows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To run LLaMA-Factory as an Anyscale job, create a [custom container image](https://docs.anyscale.com/configuration/dependency-management/dependency-container-images/#customizing-a-container-image()) that comes with LLaMA-Factory installed. You can specify the relevant packages in your dockerfile. For example, you could create an image using the `anyscale/ray-ml:2.42.0-py310-gpu` base image as follows.
```

```dockerfile
# Start with an Anyscale base image.
FROM anyscale/ray-ml:2.42.0-py310-gpu
WORKDIR /app
RUN git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory.git && \
    cd LLaMA-Factory && \
    pip install --no-cache-dir torch jieba nltk rouge-chinese && \
    pip install -e .
```

> You can then submit use this image to run your job via the [Anyscale jobs cli](https://docs.anyscale.com/platform/jobs/manage-jobs) locally or from a workspace. For example, from a workspace configured with the image you built above, you could run the following command to launch finetuning as a job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can then use this image to run your job with the [Anyscale jobs CLI](https://docs.anyscale.com/platform/jobs/manage-jobs) locally or from a workspace. For example, from a workspace configured with the image built above, you could run the following command to launch fine-tuning as a job.
```

Additionally it is recommended to use `hf_transfer` for fast model downloading. You can do this by running `pip install hf_transfer`, and setting `HF_HUB_ENABLE_HF_TRANSFER=1` in the dependencies tab. An example of setting relevant environment variables in the dependencies tab is shown below.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/anyscale/templates/main/templates/fine-tune-llm-oss/assets/env_vars.png" width=500px />

You can find some example configs in the `llamafactory_config` directory. LLaMA-Factory provides a cli `llamafactory-cli` that allows you to launch training with a config yaml file.

For example, you can launch a supervised finetuning job with ray by running the following command:
```bash
cd .. # return to top level directory
USE_RAY=1 llamafactory-cli train llamafactory_configs/llama3_lora_sft_ray.yaml
```

> This will run an Instruction Tuning training job with `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct` on an example subset of the alpaca dataset. Training statistics will by default be logged with all installed logging libraries (i.e. wandb, mlflow, comet, tensorboard), since LLaMA-Factory relies on HuggingFace's [Trainer integration](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/en/main_classes/trainer#transformers.TrainingArguments.report_to) for logging. To specify a single specific library to log with, set `report_to: <LIBRARY_NAME>` in the config YAML.

Reviewer: instruction tuning
```suggestion
This will run an instruction tuning training job with `Meta-Llama-3-8B-Instruct` on an example subset of the alpaca dataset. Training statistics will by default be logged with all installed logging libraries (i.e. wandb, mlflow, comet, tensorboard), since LLaMA-Factory relies on HuggingFace's [Trainer integration](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/en/main_classes/trainer#transformers.TrainingArguments.report_to) for logging. To specify a single specific library to log with, set `report_to: <LIBRARY_NAME>` in the config YAML.
```

## Preparing your dataset

The above config (`llamafactory_configs/llama3_lora_sft_ray.yaml`) runs out of the box, since it assumes that the dataset and dataset information is located on the huggingface hub, and specifies it as below
```yaml
...
### dataset
dataset: identity,alpaca_en_demo

> dataset_dir: REMOTE:llamafactory/demo_data  # or use local absolute path

Reviewer: REMOTE is a special LF keyword?

Author: yes

## Getting started with LLaMA-Factory 
First, you need to install the LLaMA-Factory code. You can view the latest changes from the [LLaMA-Factory github](https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory.git). 

```bash
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/hiyouga/LLaMA-Factory.git
cd LLaMA-Factory
# install extras separately so Anyscale can track the dependencies on worker nodes
pip install torch jieba nltk rouge-chinese 
pip install -e .
```

Next, you need to set your `HF_TOKEN` environment variable. You can do this via the [dependencies tab](https://docs.anyscale.com/configuration/dependency-management/dependency-development/) in Workspaces, by running `export HF_TOKEN=<HF_TOKEN_HERE>`, or by running `huggingface-cli login`.

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

Additionally it is recommended to use `hf_transfer` for fast model downloading. You can do this by running `pip install hf_transfer`, and setting `HF_HUB_ENABLE_HF_TRANSFER=1`.

```bash
pip install hf_transfer

> export HF_HUB_ENABLE_HF_TRANSFER=1

Reviewer 3: for multi-node this won't be exported?

Author: fixed - will tell ppl to just use dependencies tab for everything
